WebTransportDatagramsWritable and friends (#44383)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/webtransport/createsendgroup/index.md

---
title: "WebTransport: createSendGroup() method"
short-title: createSendGroup()
slug: Web/API/WebTransport/createSendGroup
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.WebTransport.createSendGroup
---

{{APIRef("WebTransport API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}} {{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`createSendGroup()`** method of the {{domxref("WebTransport")}} interface creates and returns a {{domxref("WebTransportSendGroup")}}.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
createSendGroup()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{domxref("WebTransportSendGroup")}} object.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the transport's state is `"closed"` or `"failed"`.

## Description

The **`createSendGroup()`** method creates a new `WebTransportSendGroup` associated with the `WebTransport` object on which it is called.

> The `WebTransportSendGroup` is used to group together streams and/or datagrams created on the same `WebTransport`, for the purpose of controlling their relative priority for sending queued bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `WebTransportSendGroup` object is used to group streams and/or datagrams created on the same `WebTransport`, to control their relative priority for sending queued bytes.
```

Author: This suggestion from the [original review comment](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44383#discussion_r3372086021) does not appear to have been applied to the current text. Reapplying:

```suggestion
The `WebTransportSendGroup` object is used to group streams and/or datagrams created on the same `WebTransport`, to control their relative priority for sending queued bytes.
```

Within the same group, bytes on higher-priority streams and datagrams are sent before bytes from lower-priority ones.

The returned `WebTransportSendGroup` is not initially associated with any streams or datagrams.

> You can associate it with a {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} or {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} by passing it as the `sendGroup` option when the object is created — see {{domxref("WebTransport.createUnidirectionalStream()")}}, {{domxref("WebTransport.createBidirectionalStream()")}}, and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream.createWritable()")}} — or by setting the object's `sendGroup` property afterwards — see `WebTransportSendStream.sendGroup` and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable.sendGroup")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can associate it with a {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} or {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} object in a couple of different ways:

- By passing it as the `sendGroup` option when the object is created — see {{domxref("WebTransport.createUnidirectionalStream()")}}, {{domxref("WebTransport.createBidirectionalStream()")}}, and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream.createWritable()")}}.
- By setting the object's `sendGroup` property afterwards — see `WebTransportSendStream.sendGroup` and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable.sendGroup")}}.
```

This sentence felt a bit heavy to parse, so I think breaking it up would be good.

Author: This suggestion from the [original review comment](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44383#discussion_r3372113598) does not appear to have been applied. Reapplying:

```suggestion
You can associate it with a {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} or {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} object in a couple of different ways:

- By passing it as the `sendGroup` option when the object is created — see {{domxref("WebTransport.createUnidirectionalStream()")}}, {{domxref("WebTransport.createBidirectionalStream()")}}, and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream.createWritable()")}}.
- By setting the object's `sendGroup` property afterwards — see `WebTransportSendStream.sendGroup` and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable.sendGroup")}}.
```
